
  Boston Bridge Remote Admission Control Scheme

  This documents the REMOTE_ADMIT scheme available in the Boston
  Bridge.  This scheme allows conference admission control to be done
  by a Bridge Access Control Service (BACS).  Using a separate service
  to perform admission control allows that service to manage
  conferences on behalf of multiple bridge servers to acheive larger
  scales and more sophisticated admission control interactions.

  The bridge server typically will not register an AOR for a
  conference using this scheme, since the initial INVITE for a call to
  the join the conference should be received by the admission control
  server.  It is assumed that the admission control server has been
  configured with the URI for each conference it manages [1].

  The initial INVITE request to join a conference is received by the
  BACS.  The BACS may use any criteria to actually make its admission
  control decisions; this document describes only how the results of
  those decisions are communicated to the bridge server.  When the
  BACS has determined that a caller should join a conference, it
  transfers the caller using an in-dialog REFER to a URI for the
  conference on the bridge.  This specification defines two URI
  parameters for this conference target URI:

    role
          This is optional.  The valid role values are defined by the
          receiving conference.

    admitSignature
          This parameter is mandatory; if it is incorrect or missing,
          the bridge server MUST NOT admit the call.

  The value of the admitSignature parameter is an MD5 hash value
  constructed by hashing the string concatenation of:

  1) The BOSTON_BRIDGE_CONFERENCE.<name>.REMOTE_ADMIT.SECRET value.

  2) The conference AOR

  3) The contact of the party being transferred into the conference

  4) The role value

  Upon receiving the INVITE from the caller, the conference constructs
  the expected hash value and compares it to the value passed in the
  admitSignature parameter, admitting calls only if the value matches.

  [1] Under some circumstances, it may be beneficial to register a
  separate URI for the brige server and for the conference on the BACS
  so that both will be globally routable.
